Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn how to declare and initialise a structure.
First let us see how to declare structure variables.
Now there are different ways to do that.
One method is declaring structure variables along with structure declaration
like this,
After closing the brackets before putting the semi colon;
we can declare the structure variables and it is not limited
to just one variable.
We can declare many variables, just separate it using commas,
Now the second method for declaring structure variable is using
the struct key word.
And the syntax for that is write struct followed by
the name of the structure followed by structure variables and a
semi colon;
At the end see an example.
We have a structure named car here and to declare
structure variable car1
Just write like this
struct car car1 semi colon;
So car1 is created like this and again we
can declare more than one variables together here
So now car2 and car3 are also created
Generally this is how we declare variables of primitive data
types
Just write the data type and then the name of
the variable and a semi colon. Here for structure it
is a user defined datatype. So here the data
type is struct name and thus we can declare structure variables.
Now let's see how to initialise structure members.
Structure members can be directly initialize like this,
so we initialise car1 with name as xyz
and price as 987432.50. So Car1
will have those values, now let us see how to
access the structure members. So to access structure members we
have to use the dot(.) operator and it is
also called as the "Member access operator".
For example suppose we need to access the name of
car1.
Then we can access it using car1.name
and to access the price of car1,
then we can access car1.price.
Now let us see a sample programme,
We have the main function and a structure car is
declared with members name which is a character array and price
of float type and a structure variable car1 is declared
and initialised with values xyz and 987432.50.
Now we are printing the name of car1 as
car1.name which will print xyz
And now we are printing the price of car1
as car1.price which will print 987432.50
Now suppose we had this line of code here
car1.price equal to 1000000.50
then this price of car1 will be updated.
So we can also change the value of structure members using
the same dot operator.
Now when we print the name it will print the
same name
xyz
And when we print the price it will be 1000000.50
So that's all and thank you for watching this video.